[Music_]
>> We've all heard of
spontaneous healing and even
remote healing by now.
While mainstream
science is still
searching for a credible
hypothesis for the phenomenon,
others are using it to heal.
Richard Gordon has been
healing with his hands and mind
for decades, and is the
founder of Quantum Touch.
The amazing news is that
he says anyone can do this.
He's with us today to
share the background
of this amazing science and
demonstrate how it works.
So glad to have you
with us Richard.
>> Richard Gordon: Hey,
it's my pleasure to be here.
Thanks for having me.
>> Let's start the conversation
where we should start it.
You were blown away, this is a
long time ago now, decades ago,
when you started seeing
this phenomenon in action
and you took it from there, you
studied with a wonderful man
and then you expanded on it.
So let's start at the beginning
of your discovery path.
>> Richard Gordon: Well the
discovery path goes way back,
but in 1978 when my first
book, "Your Healing Hands"
was about to come out, I
met a gentleman named Robert
Rasmussen at the first workshop
that he ever presented and he
was this guy telling tall tales
and I didn't believe anything
he said.
He said, "Oh yeah, I just touch
people and the bones move back
into alignment and I
dissolved the tumor the size
of a grapefruit and this child
broke his leg and then...."
You know, later that day he
was walking around the swimming
pool again, and I just
didn't believe him,
but then he demonstrated
on a friend of mine who
had major scoliosis and he said,
"Well, see how the hips are all
twisted," and then he just
touched and the bones moved
back into alignment and
then the shoulder came down
and the spine started
straightening out
and my jaw was
opened, and I assumed
he had some kind of rare gift.
I was never going to be able
to learn it and no one else
either.
But I found out in the
course of that workshop
that not only could I do it but
other people could do it too.
I apprenticed with him,
I studied with him,
I eventually evolved the
work, created a business
and a company called
Quantum Touch.
We've been taking
it around the world.
We've got thousands of
practitioners in over 70
countries right
now, showing things
that we never thought possible.
>> Now, how long ago
did Quantum Touch start?
I just ask for myself
because it seems
like I've heard about
Quantum Touch forever.
>> Richard Gordon: Yeah.
I first learned to
run the energy in 1978
and I started teaching
some rudimentary classes
a couple years after that.
Then about 1995, 1996 I gave
it the name Quantum Touch.
I took over in Bob
Rasmussen's retirement
and I've been taking it
around the world since then.
>> Okay, so you, as you
say, you evolved the work.
>> Richard Gordon: Tremendously.
>> You turned it into Quantum
Touch and the word you hear
there is Quantum and Touch, okay
so you have a couple different
strands of energetic
information going on, physical
and physical.
>> Richard Gordon: Exactly
>> And at what point did you
evolve it to where you could
eliminate the hands
altogether and just work with
the intention of the mind?
Well and some other dynamics.
>> Richard Gordon: Yeah, all
this time we were doing hands
on work because that's
how we saw it going,
which is great because you
can concentrate for hours with
your hands on somebody.
It's still a
wonderful way to work
but about four years
ago a friend of mine,
we were having dinner with some
other people and he said, "Oh,
show this woman how you can
adjust the hips without,
you know, with a light touch,"
and I was about to do it
and he said, "You know,
I bet you can do that
without touching it."
I said really?
He said, "Yeah, give it a try."
So I stood back there
and what surprised
me was I knew how to do it.
And I just used
consciousness and in seconds,
just a few seconds, her
hips weren't twisted,
and that really surprised me and
once I saw that I said, "Hey,
if we can do this what
else is possible?"
And that opened up a whole
new set of possibilities,
so we called that the New Human,
these new human abilities that
have been undocumented.
>> Yet, remote healing has
been in existence almost since
the beginning of time so this
must have inspired you to start
looking into maybe the
historical uses of remote
healing and give us some
background on remote healing.
Where it starts
showing up in text
and how it was
used historically.
>> Richard Gordon: Well I'm not
a historian on remote healing
but we had been using remote
healing in Quantum Touch
forever basically, but to be
able to have a level of freedom
that we never imagined in the
work, that's what's surprising.
So for example, I was able
to work on hundreds of people
simultaneously at a conference.
I gave a keynote address at
the University of Hong Kong
and they wanted
to see if I could
untwist people's hips on stage.
We had 17 people on stage
and I did it out loud.
What it is I, I
said first I'm going
to look at everybody on stage
and get a sense of everybody
here, now I'm going
to close my eyes
and merge everybody
into one iconic being.
Now I'm just going to untwist
this [inaudible], which we'll
talk about later
as you asked me to,
and then I took about
four or five seconds,
we had somebody measuring
every single person before this
and when I was done we
measured everybody again
and they were all untwisted.
Then we did 400 people
simultaneously in the audience.
Now, sure, remote healing
has gone on forever,
but to have this level
of freedom and ability
to work across time and space;
to work on multiple people
at once; to do things
we had never imagined,
even a way to assist people
at shifting their own core
beliefs.
Now this is a two
person job where
we both have to work
together but you
can help people even change
core beliefs with energy.
We don't know the
limits of this work.
>> Yes.
It's really... it's
scientifically...we're just
beginning and we're going
to talk about a wonderful
experiment that you
plan to conduct,
which I think is so fascinating.
Before that though, let's
get a little more background.
Dr. Norman Shealy
came into your realm
and let's talk about
that whole experience
and what he learned from it.
>> Richard Gordon: Yeah, Elmer
Green wanted me to meet Norm
Shealy.
He's the Father of
Biofeedback and he
said it's not enough to get
Norm excited about your work,
we've got to make sure that
he actually researches it.
So, I got on a plane, went
to Norm Shealy's place
and he's known, he's Founder
and President of the American
Holistic Medical Association.
He was a brain
surgeon by training.
The guy is known as a skeptic
and even lives in Missouri.
>> He is a man of science and
he is in the "Show Me" state,
right.
>> Richard Gordon: He really is.
So he had me work on his
secretary, his accountant,
his nurses and the back pain,
the neck pain, the shoulder
pain all that stuff
just disappeared
within a couple minutes of
me working on each person.
Then he said let's give you
somebody more challenging.
Brought in a woman about 90
years old with a walker and--
>> That's not fair.
>> Richard Gordon: They took her
history for like a half an hour
and I realized when you're 90
you've got a lot of history.
I finally said, "Can I show you
what I do?" and he said, "Yes,
of course," and I
measured her hips
and they were massively
out of alignment.
And then I just
touched as lightly
as I could and her
hips rolled back
to alignment, her
doctor came over, put
her fingers on her hips, jaw
opened, perfect Kodak moment,
and I said, "Norm, are you
impressed?" and he said, "No,
I'm not impressed."
I said, "Well, I'm not
always this successful.
It doesn't always
work this well."
I said, "What's it going
to take to impress you?"
He said, "I don't have to do
a double blind on everything
that I test.
I just have to make
the test so rigorous,
I can't believe anything
but the outcome."
So, the next day he set up all
his most difficult chronic pain
patients, people with 20 and
30 years of constant pain
who had never been helped by
a traditional or alternative
therapy.
So I figured, okay
if you're going
to gang up on me
that way, I trained
his secretary, his accountant
and nurses how to do
energy work and Norm, too.
So we worked on these people
as a group and everyone had
between a 30 and 70 percent
reduction in their pain,
and what impressed Norm
more was ten days later when
he called me up, he said,
"This is remarkable.
Every one of these
people is still
experiencing the
reduction of their pain
from a single session."
Then, the thing that
impressed him the most
was the ability to
affect EEG at a distance.
That's the brain wave patterns.
So a person lays on
the table, he's not
told he's going to be getting
a healing session, half
an hour baseline, I get the
nod, I start running energy.
In the first five minutes
his central brain delta
tripled in amplitude
and the next 25 minutes
he got so, in the
next 5 minutes,
or 25 rather, he
got so quiet, Norm
said "If I had just seen
that last 5 minute segment
I might have thought
the man was brain dead."
So he started calling me names.
He said, "Well, Richard,
you're a world class healer."
I said, "No, Norm.
This is a basic human
skill" and he said, "Well,
either you have the healthiest
ego or the best act."
Anyway, when he called me up
to say every one of his staff
members was able to affect EEG
at a distance, I said, "Norm,
what an extraordinary
coincidence.
All your staff are
world class healers."
This is a basic human
skill that we're teaching
and, when I talk about
adjusting the posture,
the only reason
I talk about that
is that it's considered
physiologically impossible
and it's visible
to the naked eye
and it works on
virtually everyone.
>> As Dean Radin, who you
know, I've interviewed, says,
he calls it "spooky
action at a distance".
>> Richard Gordon: That's a
term from Einstein actually.
>> Oh is it his?
He was quoting Einstein.
Okay, spooky action
at a distance,
is what they call it
right, because you're
affecting the material
world in a way
that you shouldn't be able to,
through mechanistic science.
>> Richard Gordon: Exactly.
The mechanistic belief is
we're just a bunch of machines
and even people
like Ray Kurzweil
thinks that one day we're
going to be able to upload
or download our
consciousness to a machine.
>> Yeah right.
>> Richard Gordon: But when you
show that our love is actually
the real force that
changes the outer reality,
the whole idea of the
mechanistic viewpoint
of science is just out the
window because they have not
considered that our
consciousness and our love is
real, and this
changes everything.
They're looking for a unified
field theory of reality
and without consciousness
included in a unified field
theory it's incomplete.
>> There's no unified field
without consciousness.
>> Richard Gordon: So my friend
made me a sign and the sign
said "Quantum theory
is incomplete.
Free demo."
And we were working on people
at a [inaudible] conference
and just, you know,
out there demonstrating
that we could just shift their
body with a consciousness.
They were blown away.
>> At that I'm surprised you
weren't banned like some other
people we talked to.
>> Richard Gordon: We didn't
get to present at the conference
but we got to show people at
the conference and they said
my God, we want you
to be a speaker.
But they're coming from a very
materialistic point of view
up to this point,
kicking out some
of the recordings of Graham
Hancock and Rupert Sheldrake.
>> Crazy.
So it shows that there's
quite a limitation
to what Ted is willing
to put out there
by way of conscious evolution.
>> Richard Gordon: Up till now.
>> Up till now.
So you're saying it's
going to be changing maybe
as a result of the [inaudible]
taking down Graham and Rupert.
I mean, there was quite
an outcry over that.
>> Richard Gordon: I know and
I was one of the people crying
out to--
>> And Deepak Chopra as well.
There were many of you
speaking up on their behalf.
Like, why are you
limiting the messages
to what the healing
being's potential is?
>> Richard Gordon: Well when
people see that we can actually
do things in the physical world
that's tangible, measurable,
reproducible, it fits in what
science is supposed to be,
empirical.
>> That's right
and, fortunately,
we know the story of
what science has become.
It has evolved to a thing where
you have to secure grants,
you have to please your
peers and so forth, there's
tenure involved.
But I want to finish
up on Normal Shealy.
Do you mind if I read
this comment to you?
>> Richard Gordon: Please.
>> There is this quote.
It said, he was speaking
of Quantum Touch
after he went through this
whole experience with you.
He said, "This may be the
first technique that may
allow all of us to be healers."
Now, you touched on
this a moment ago.
The reason it has existed
throughout history,
both with touch
and with the mind,
is because it is working in
the quantum soup as it were,
but it is our
birthright as humans
because we're
multidimensional and connected
into these levels
of intelligence
and let's talk about
material versus non material.
>> Richard Gordon: Yeah,
what happens is there is this
junction between the quantum
world and our consciousness.
We are 99.999999999 percent
empty space and the fact
that we can even
see each other is
a just a little trick of light.
>> Yes.
>> Richard Gordon: And that
which is not empty space is
just energy and it doesn't have
matter to it as we know matter.
It pops in and out of
existence all the time.
Love is that universal energy
that affects these things.
So the Quantum
Touch practitioner
is different than the
other practitioners
that I know of because
we use breathing and body
awareness to raise
our vibration really,
really high throughout the
session so we don't get drained
or tired from doing the work.
We do it through breathing
and body awareness primarily.
In the advanced work we learn
to raise the heart vibration,
really open it up
and project it,
and that love and
adoration energy
is a really super,
fantastic way of working.
Then we project it and we're
light beings and so of course
the energy's going to
work on the light being.
Now, we're bringing
down pain, inflammation,
accelerating the healing process
and doing a lot of other things
that we see, and these are all
tangible, measurable things
but the energy itself is
not measurable because it's
a spiritual energy.
So from the material
point of view
there can't be
anything happening
because they don't see anything
that they can measure or do
mathematics on it because
that's what [inaudible]
was talking about, through
measure and numbers
we will conquer nature.
But that's not
what this is about.
This is about
affecting the reality
and allowing it to do its
own self healing because we
like to say that the
definition of a healer
was someone who was
sick and got well,
and a great healer is
someone who was very sick
and got well quickly.
So I don't ever call
myself a healer and none
of our practitioners do either.
What we do is we hold that
field and then the other person
matches the vibration
of the practitioner
so you continue lifting
yourself throughout the session.
That way, they match you.
You never get drained or tired
and come down to match them.
>> Yes, and what you spoke
about a moment ago about this
frequency of love and when we
were looking at this segment
and, gee, how do we give
a description of it?
Do we have to use the word love?
Isn't it a little new-agey?
>> Richard Gordon: No, it's
not new agey and, in fact,
everyone that I've interviewed
in the world of science,
particularly quantum physics,
acknowledges that whatever that
thing is that we produce in
the field that we call love,
that exalted state of
consciousness in being
and feeling, seems to be,
as William Teller calls it,
a "universal solvent."
>>It is the fabric of
the universe right?
I mean at the highest
frequencies that penetrates
all these dimensions.
>> Richard Gordon: Yes.
It goes across time.
It goes across space.
See, the mechanists think love
is an electromagnetic energy
that we're just projecting from
our electrochemical reaction
in the brain or a sentiment
on a card or something.
I feel that you feel, and we've
kind of had this delusion,
we both feel it together,
but it's an actual force
that changes the outer world.
>> Yes.
>> Richard Gordon: And
that's the real key.
So, as an example, I've
got this little kitten
and she was a rescue
cat and she was a little
desperate for attention.
So even at six months
she's crawling all over me
and just can't get enough love.
So I'm talking to a
friend who's still
trying to process the
forceps birth that he had
by going back.
I said, "Why don't
you change the past?"
He said, "Well, you know,
that's just not integrated."
I said, "Well, I'm going to
do it right now on my cat."
So I meditated at the café
for about four or five minutes
and what I saw was my little
kitten and she was nursing with
mommy and then I saw
her being bottle fed.
I said, "Well, you
don't want that"
and I picked up
the little kitten
and I brought her back to mommy.
This is all my imagination,
and I'm running hard energy
and I'm sending her the
love as if I was helping
somebody's knee or
somebody with dementia
or whatever problem I'm working
on, I just send her the love.
In time, when I got home
to my shock and surprise,
she's totally
comfortable sitting
on the other side of the room.
Later, as I was
watching a movie,
she got on the far
side of the couch
and eventually
leaned against me.
Now she comes up to
me about two or three
times a day for five or ten
minutes for intense affection
but then she's done and
she's not clingy anymore,
and it only took a
few minutes and that's
working across time and space.
>> And it's across
all belief boundaries.
There is no belief;
it's your kitty cat.
>> Richard Gordon:
Speaking of belief,
one of my co writers
Chris Duffield,
he won a Presidential Scholar
Award, really bright guy.
It took him over ten
years of being my friend
before he started getting over
his skepticism about this work.
He'd eventually, you know, seen
it work over and over again,
seen other people being able to
do it and eventually, oh dread,
seeing himself doing it.
He said that it's as
if I've discovered
a new human operating
system and now we're
discovering all of the apps.
He said these human
abilities, as a scientist,
are as surprising to him as
discovering that we could
breathe underwater or fly, but
the thing that he likes best
about it is that it works,
even when he knows it won't.
It works.
Even he made a sign that
said "Free, one minute,
no touch healing sessions"
and he brought it
to a farmer's market and
people are coming up to him--
>> And he was doing it?
>> Richard Gordon:
He was doing it.
To his chagrin, it was working.
He comes to my
workshop and this man
has this sinus
pain that he's had
since he was a teenager,
got into an accident.
Chris is a good
meditator, he's meditating
and the man stops
him after two minutes
and said, "Oh, I just heard
a loud snapping in my face
and something moved
and now I can breathe,"
and Chris, his jaw is open.
Chris is at the workshop and
he's working with a woman.
We have this
meditation where we're
holding the baby of the
person you're working on
because none of us got as much
love as we wanted as an infant
or as much touch.
So he's holding this
stranger to him as a baby
and at the end of
the eight minutes
that he's doing this
meditation he opens his eyes
and she has tears
streaming down her face
and she said, "You know I
never had a father in my life
and I always felt
something was missing,
and somehow I don't feel
anything's missing anymore.
I got the love that I needed."
>> It can happen that quickly.
That's how powerful that
frequency that we call love is.
>> Richard Gordon: Exactly.
>> Maybe there needs to be even
a more elevated term for it
so people don't get confused
with sentimental love
and universal love, the
universal solvent of love,
which is non-, what is the word?
>> Richard Gordon:
It's non inculturated.
>> Non-inculturated, exactly.
>> Richard Gordon: Yeah
it's not mommy to baby,
it's not husband to wife
or brother to sister.
This is the love that
we feel inside ourselves
because we exist.
>> Yes.
Now the thing is people
that do various seminars
and have written a lot of books
on how to manifest in your life
and so forth.
It's no more than the
exact same frequency.
Everything that comes comes from
this frequency more or less.
The intensity and passion and
power of the human thought
mechanism combined,
ideally, with the same thing
of the heart, the
heart mechanism,
and this is Heart
Math Institute.
I mean, this has been
studied now ad nauseam
and proven out over
and over again.
>> Richard Gordon: And the Heart
Math Institute and other groups
are always showing these
electromagnetic field charts;
showing the amazing
field of the heart,
but what we're doing
is not electromagnetic
because distance means nothing
and light and electromagnetism
fall off from the source.
This doesn't fall off at all.
>> Well you're basically
extending it out in the way you
teach into other dimensional
realities beyond the time space
continuum of the
third dimension.
>> Richard Gordon: So it's not
an electromagnetic phenomenon
because that's an extension
of material science that wants
to say oh, we can measure
this electromagnetic field.
It isn't measurable because
spiritual energy is not
going to be measured.
This is something that
is intrinsic within us
and this is one of the great
mysteries and the great magic
that we're involved in.
>> Well and it goes
back to this thing.
You've already touched on
it, you've already said it,
but I don't think you
can overstate it enough.
If you were looking at it from
an atomic model point of view,
you see a few electrons
swirling around
and this vast amount
of atomic space
is similar to watching X number
of planets circling our sun
and our solar system.
That's how much space
there is in every atom
of every cell of every
physical thing on this planet.
It's all space.
>> Richard Gordon: It's
inconceivable how much space
there is.
>> Yes.
>> Richard Gordon: It's like
eight or nine decimals of 99999
percent--
>> Of what we are is just
space and space is energy,
so of course the mind and the
heart is going to affect space.
It makes perfect sense.
Okay, so let's go in to
when you're generating this,
you've already
talked about the fact
that belief and skepticism.
I mean we were
talking off camera.
There was a doctor and you
were showing him this work
and he actually told
you at one point,
I do not want to see
how this turns out.
>> Richard Gordon: Oh
that was really funny.
I was at a conference,
it was a conference
called Tour to Science of
Consciousness and Chris
had made a big sign for me
that said, "Consciousness
effects matter, free demo."
And all these scientists were
there and one comes up to me
and says, "Alright,
what've you got?"
And I said, "Well, I'm
going to demonstrate
that consciousness
effects matter
by untwisting your hips."
Now, I mentioned
the hips before.
It's just something that's
physiologically impossible.
I understand that
your hips are twisted.
You have no physiological
way of untwisting them
and it's visible.
That's the only
reason I talk about it
because most of the humans
have all kinds of real issues
that you care about.
So he said, "Well,
that's impossible."
And I said, "Great,
hold that thought."
I said to make it
even so I measure
and I said, "Oh my
goodness, you are
twisted more than almost
anybody I've ever met."
He was like really far off.
And I said, "To make it
harder on me, why don't you
lock your hips in place?"
So he locks his hips and I
meditate for a few seconds
and I measure him
and said, "Oh look!
They're completely even now."
He said, "Well, of course.
You used reverse
psychology on me."
I said, "Would you
consider yourself
an empirical scientist?
Or faith-based?"
I was kind of abating.
He said, "Well,
empirical of course."
I said, "Great,
then why don't you
watch me do this on
five or ten more people
and see if I'm using
reverse psychology?"
He says, "If I let myself
believe this just happened,
everything I know about science,
meaning material science,
would fall like a
house of cards."
I said, "Well, as an
empirical scientist,
don't you want to let the
cards fall where they will?"
And he thought for a moment
and he said, "Not today"
and he just walked away.
>> And there you have it.
>> Richard Gordon:
And there you have it.
>> That's the [inaudible] you
have between the two fields
of healing.
>> Richard Gordon: Exactly.
>> I mean it is slowly
coming together.
There are people who are coming
from the materialist portion
of science or viewpoint
and crossing over
into the non-material because
of exactly things like this.
>> Richard Gordon: Well this is
going to be the biggest shift
in 400 years.
>> Yes, it is.
>> Richard Gordon: Because when
Galileo was saying the Earth
goes around the sun and had to,
and that was exactly 400 years
ago from right now that he
was saying this and getting
in trouble for it, had to recant
or else he would have been
burned at the stake,
that was the big shift.
Right now, the
big shift is going
to be from the material
science to realizing
that our love is actually real
and we need to value our love
and value the love
all the animals have;
the plants; value the
Earth; value ourselves
and come from compassion
because that's
what's most lacking
in the world,
is leaders who are coming
from the compassionate point
of view.
>> Absolutely.
Now, when you do
these, these healing
sessions it happens
very quickly.
You've talked a few times
about straightening up
the pelvic girdle a little
bit and untwisting it,
and there are other
layers to this,
which we're going to
get into in a moment
because I'd like you to give us
a real functional understanding
of it as we continue our talk.
And also I want to talk
about the various conditions
that you've seen
affected by this.
But first, why don't we take
a glimpse just before we
started the conversation, we
did a couple of little segments
at people here at
Gaiam and we're
going to take a look at that.
[Video Playing ] So
simple, so quick,
but obviously there's some
other elements in there that are
hidden and it's the juju
that you were doing,
which you can say we can all
do, and I want to start talking
about that.
>> Richard Gordon: Sure.
>> Because you have intention,
you have mind and you have love
going at the same time.
So explain what you're actually
doing if you're setting
yourself up for a session.
>> Richard Gordon: In
that particular example
I'm generating the heart energy,
I'm using breathing and body
awareness in my system,
I'm actually visualizing
the sphenoid bone which
is behind the nose.
It's the first bone
created in the embryo,
it supports the pituitary
gland then the sinuses.
It's really essential.
And what I'm doing
is I'm intending
that it untwist itself
while I'm sending energy.
And what's really
fascinating is that I've
been doing it wrong for years.
>> You have been doing
it wrong for years?
>> Richard Gordon: Yes.
I always visualize
that it moves this way
but then I found out
just like a year ago
that it was supposed
to go that way.
>> Your adjustment
of the sphenoid?
>> Richard Gordon: Yeah.
I was intending the sphenoid
bone moving to alignment
but I was visualizing it wrong.
But the universe understands.
As Chris likes to call it
the benevolent infrastructure
of the universe, aka
God, understands intent.
Our intent is understood.
So this is a really good
demonstration and model
that spiritual reality
understands our intent.
>> Yes.
>> Richard Gordon: And whatever
you call it it's there and it
works.
So that's generally
that, but when
you're working on pain or
inflammation or chronic
conditions or whatever it is,
we can send the same energy.
Now, when you're working
a long time on somebody
it's really good to
use your hands still.
It's a very good way to work
because you can stay focused
for very long periods of time.
But if I was holding
somebody's head with my hands,
I could be working
on their feet,
I could be working on
their knee problem,
I could be working on their
organs and glands and systems
and their body, even
working on the dementia,
whatever it is because the
body responds to the energy
as it will.
We provide the love and
it does the healing.
>> How clear does your mind
have to be about the healing
intention?
Where does the mind come
in in terms of focus?
>> Richard Gordon: The
intention is very general.
You don't have to
be that specific
because if you intend to walk
out the door you don't have
to question yourself,
well am I still
intending to walk out the door?
You don't have to beat
yourself up that way.
You wouldn't even be doing it
if you hadn't had the intent.
It's just a real
core thing about us.
So when I work with
like a grad student
and I'm thinking I
want to show them
how to do something for a
test, I just ask two questions.
I say, "Do you know how to adore
kittens or babies or puppies
or do you have adoration
for anybody in the world?"
and they'll say,
"Yeah I do, I do."
And then I'll say, "Do
you want to help people?"
Yes.
Okay, if they
answer affirmatively
to those questions,
they're ready to learn.
But the people that say, "Well,
what do you mean 'adore?'"
Okay, forget it.
>> Never mind.
>> Richard Gordon: Never mind,
we'll work with somebody else
because they're too
much in their head.
>> Right and that gets us into
another area we might touch
on later which is some people
are psychopaths and it's very
difficult if you happen
to be of that makeup;
it's very difficult to create
healing in anything from that
place, no less yourself.
>> Richard Gordon: Well it's
an interesting question to see
if we can train psychopaths
to do this work.
>> Yes.
>> Richard Gordon: There might
actually be a psychopath test.
>> Yes.
>> But we really don't care as
long as people have compassion
and empathy and love and
care about other people.
You can do it.
>> Richard Gordon: We
can do this work, yeah.
>> Okay and in your book,
what you just explained sounds
really easy.
>> Richard Gordon: It is.
>> It just takes a few seconds.
However, if you haven't
done it before you're
very good at guiding
people in your book,
the "Quantum Touch
2.0" step by step
in how you, because you just
glossed over and said first
you get the heart going
and the body awareness
and the breathing with
the body awareness.
Now explain that
just a little bit.
>> Richard Gordon: We really
still encourage people to work
with the basic Quantum Touch.
>> Yes.
>> Richard Gordon: "The Quantum
Touch," "The Power to Heal."
We've got live workshops,
video workshops
and many other programs
people can work with.
The book will even teach you
because I don't hold anything
back.
It's starts with breathing
and body awareness exercises
where you can move awareness
through your whole system
in a sweep and it's really easy.
People learn it all the time.
We have incredible
stories just coming
from the first
day of a workshop.
Then, for those that want
to jump ahead that's fine
or you want to work
through the program,
we teach people how to
work with hard energy
in the "Quantum Touch
2.0 The New Human"
and be able to do a
wide range of things.
The exciting thing
about the advanced work
is it provides a much
higher level of freedom
with more possibilities that
we hadn't even dreamed of.
>> Is that more of the remote
work you're talking about?
>> Richard Gordon: Now we can do
the remote work with the basic
Quantum Touch but there's such
a higher level of freedom and it
happens about three to five
times faster with the new work.
>> And some people, you said
yes it's good to go through
the original Quantum Touch work.
Some people need,
their minds need
to be satisfied that it
understands protocols
and so forth to kind of
free them from any question
as to whether it can work.
Other people you can
probably teach it
to in one or two minutes.
They just inherently understand.
Oh, that, okay I can do that.
>> Richard Gordon: This is a
basic human skill and if it
wasn't I wouldn't
be able to teach it.
>> Right.
>> Richard Gordon: I would
guarantee people would be able
to move bones into alignment
before lunch break on the first
day when I was lecturing all
over the world and everybody
succeeded.
No one fails.
It's really that easy.
>> Let's talk about knitting
bones and let's talk about some
anecdotes.
I love anecdotes.
Some incredible stories.
>> Richard Gordon: So for
instance a woman stepped off
a curb badly, her foot
went way off to the side,
her chiropractor said,
"Go to the emergency room.
You've got a broken bone."
So while she's sitting
in the emergency room
she's running energy
into her painful leg.
When she gets examined the
foot and leg have completely
reset itself and they
don't have to set it.
All they do is put a cast on it.
Another woman told me that
she attended the Quantum Touch
workshop and she has had
bowed legs since she was born.
She wasn't allowed to take
ballet class because she
had bowed legs so bad.
She attends the class.
The next morning
when she wakes up she
doesn't have bowed
legs anymore and she
starts having an arch
in her flat foot.
Another woman tells me that she
had rheumatoid arthritis so bad
her children had to
hoist her out of bed.
She had nine physicians talking
to her about her condition.
One of them said to her
one day, "Within a year
you may well be confined
to a wheelchair and blind."
And she just said,
"No, thank you"
and she decides to do
something fun that day
and she went to a dog show
because she loves dogs.
And just like 1,400 dogs
there, she's in heaven
and she sees this woman doing
something called Quantum Touch
and says, "what the hell.
I've tried everything else."
She lays down and her legs start
feeling good for the first time
and she starts studying the
work, doing it on herself.
Now she can walk her dogs
three to five, you know,
two or three miles at a
time without any problem,
hours at a time out
there walking her dogs.
She does everything.
She has no symptoms anymore.
We don't know the limits
of what's possible
and that's one of the most
exciting places to come from.
>> So as people are listening
to this it's like wow, okay.
How is this different
from faith healing?
Going to the big top with
Billy Graham and so forth?
>> Richard Gordon: Well one of
the things is this is actually
a skill unlike, you know, a
lot of hands on healing where
they'll use symbols
or attunements.
We have no symbols.
We have no attunements.
I'm not asking anybody
to believe anything.
You can be religious
or an atheist
or a spiritual without religion,
whatever you want to be.
I never even covered
that as a question.
I don't ask anybody
to accept or believe
anything I'm telling them.
What I do ask them to do is
do the breathing and body
awareness exercises to
raise their vibration.
They raise their vibration
high enough, the field,
the other person entrained
to their vibration
and then the body heals itself.
So it's very different
than the other modalities
in that regard.
>> You were an atheist
prior to all of this.
>> Richard Gordon:
That's where I started.
>> Talk about what happened.
What was the transition for you?
>> Richard Gordon: Oh,
there were many transitions
in my path.
>> But essentially you were
a materialist and as you say
you're still a closet scientist?
>> Richard Gordon:
Oh, I love science,
but more of the Rupert Sheldrake
variety I love the ideals
of science and that we can
really test things and check
them out and not to
come from the assumption
and the prejudice point of
view that says everything has
to have a material explanation.
I've had so many spiritual
experiences in my life
that I can't deny the existence
of the infinite love and God
and whatever we call it.
I just don't buy into religion.
I think of religion kind of
like the point of view of well,
I think we understand
I'll just say it this way.
spirituality
as well as a dust
mite understands
the Library of Congress
that it's walking in.
It has no conception
of how deep it goes.
I think our love is
infinite because we're
connected to source.
>> But the scientist part,
let's go back to that for just
a moment because you're still,
even though you've seen this
again thousands and
thousands, you have thousands
of practitioners doing this.
You are on a bit of a
mission and that is you
want to prove this to the
world of science as well,
and so you're planning on
doing a wonderful experiment
involving MRI technology.
>> Richard Gordon: Yeah, what
we want to show is because this
physiological
untwisting of the hips,
which isn't really very
interesting to most people,
but because it's considered
physiologically impossible,
we want to actually to
what's called 4D MRI,
which means it's an MRI movie
and we'll show the untwisting
happening in movie form.
We can run it
forward and backward
and show it happening
in real time.
>> Well and you, just before we
went on, you got a phone call
from someone saying possibly
the experiment's on.
>> Richard Gordon: Yeah,
he's got some leads to see
it's really hard for me being in
the healing capacity to call up
radiologists and say, "Hey,
let's test something out,"
so I needed some assistance and
this chiropractor is helping me
open the door to
the radiologists.
>> So you're planning on
doing that hopefully soon.
>> Yeah, probably
within a month.
>> Within a month, okay.
And then the scientists will
have their empirical evidence
they're looking for.
>> Richard Gordon: Exactly,
because I really believe
in providing them
empirical evidence.
I don't ask anybody to
accept anything on faith.
>> And yet at the same time
our minds and our own beings,
our own energy field, our
subconscious and the programing
in it do affect what's
going on in our body,
and even our own ability
to heal ourselves.
As you write about in your
book, some Quantum Touch
practitioners are more
proficient than others
at healing themselves.
And there are sometimes when
even healing someone else,
if I can just extend that, you
can't get to it for very long.
>> Richard Gordon: This
is a very important point.
I cannot adjust my own
posture with energy.
I've tried hundreds of times.
Other people can do it
really easily and they said,
"Don't put your
limitations on us,"
and I say, "Thank you very much.
I appreciate it."
But I don't want to
give you the idea
that energy healing is the
only important thing to do.
There is the nutritional
element of it;
exercise is really
important and most important
is the emotional level.
And I have an entire
other modality
called Self Created Health
where I teach people
how to find and process
the emotional causes.
Now, about 90
percent of the time
we're able to get at least
a symptomatic shift, if not
a long term shift, in health
condition, but what we do
have from time to
time conditions
that will not budge with energy
healing, and I respect that.
If that isn't what's
called for, that isn't, you
know, the right tool for
the job, so I figured out
a way to help people find and
release the emotional cause.
Now it takes about ten, fifteen
sometimes twenty minutes
to find exactly what
the emotional cause is.
It isn't paint by numbers,
you know, this means this--
>> And in 20 questions.
>> Richard Gordon: Actually,
there are a number of questions
that I ask but the answers
provide a three dimensional
hologram of what the emotional
issue is that we're not dealing
with.
Then, of course,
there's the release
and then the third
step is the one
that people get in trouble with.
It's finding that
place within yourself
where you really realize
that you hurt yourself.
Now, people who jump to
step three and realize I
create my reality,
I'm responsible,
they just beat themselves
up because they
can't be responsible.
It's too big a pill to swallow.
But when people find
they've released
the intensity, the emotion, they
know exactly what the issue was
and they've released
it, then they
realize that they've
hurt themselves,
then they can go into the
remorse and self forgiveness
and it turns into an
explosive self-love.
So, not only do the symptoms go
away, but people feel grateful.
>> I think what a lot of
people don't get and don't want
and, for that reason, don't
want to explore really deeply
into the caverns of the
subconscious mind where all
these experiences are held, is
that they fear they're going
to see something horrible about
themselves but isn't everybody.
>> Richard Gordon: Yeah, we
have this pain but the body has
the ability to be sick.
>> Yes.
>> Richard Gordon: Not as a
dysfunction but a communication
from a higher self and
the reason for this is
because we're
connected to source,
our pain goes deeper than we
want to know but our love goes
deeper than we can know.
>> Yes.
>> Richard Gordon: And so, when
we tap into these levels and we
hit that real core energy of
that depth of love of who we
are, not only do
symptoms go away,
but people feel grateful
for having had the condition
and that's the deeper work.
>> Yes, because it creates a
knot in the entire being when
there are these
trapped emotions.
We have knots in our
relationships with others.
There are boundaries; barriers
between real connections
with others when we
feel that we have
these deep dark secrets about
how awful something in us is.
>> Richard Gordon: Or pain
that we just can't release
or the problem and so what
happens is sometimes our higher
self, I believe,
intervenes and says no,
energy work is not the
answer to this question.
It's not the answer
to your problem.
You can eat
nutritionally, perfect
[inaudible] and you still
have this thing going on.
But when you release
those emotions...so,
the woman in the workshop, she
explained she couldn't stop
crying, she never felt
so much love in her life;
she never felt so grateful
in her whole life,
and now she loves her dad again
and so what condition triggered
all that?
Well, my shoulder hurt.
And everybody laughs.
Well, the shoulder
is all completed.
It's not even a problem, but
now she's taken herself back
and that's the benefit of
the self created health,
because when the energy
work isn't the answer,
we go to the emotional causes.
>> Yes.
You have in your
book also-- you were
talking about what
happened, my shoulder hurt.
You have in your book a
graphic of the human vertebrae
and what each organ
and part of the body
is associated with
each of the vertebrae.
Now, this is fairly scientific.
Do we need to know this in
order to do this healing?
What is the advantage in
understanding ourselves
on that level physiologically?
>> Richard Gordon: We have three
chapters in the book where we
go into a lot of physiology.
We have a big paragraph at the
beginning of the chapter that
says if you're not
interested in understanding
this depth of spirituality,
skip the chapter
and just work generally.
But for those people
who love really getting
that depth of understanding,
working specifically
can be very useful, but if
you don't need to go there
we see miracles
happen with people
who have virtually no
physiological understanding
whatsoever.
The hip bone is connected
to the thigh bone and that's
enough information for me.
>> Yeah.
And some people are
better at sending,
some are maybe better
at receiving or are
we all what would
you say about that?
>> Richard Gordon: I would say
that pretty much everybody has
the ability to feel love.
Some people are more broken
and hurt than other people
but it's all there, and as
people exercise that ability
it opens up more for them.
I remember one man commenting
I've forgotten I have a heart
and how deeply I know
how to love until I took
this workshop,
because it opens it up
and you realize he
had tears in his eyes.
Thank you for helping me
open my heart again and find
this part of myself.
>> Yes.
I recently did a couple
of interviews on autism
with Susie Miller
and William Tiller.
I call it the Tiller
and Miller show right?
They're doing some amazing
experiments with consciousness
and its effect on
people that are
autistic, young children
who are autistic,
and it's quantifiable.
>> Richard Gordon: Beautiful.
>> Yes.
And you have done some work
with healing touch and autism.
I remember reading in the
book there was some work done.
Is that correct?
>> Richard Gordon: Yeah.
There's so many
conditions that respond
to the work and some people are
working with autistic children
and many other things.
I remember one man.
This wife talked to the
judge, she was a social worker
and the baby was born with
severe fetal alcohol syndrome,
addicted to amphetamines, 13
weeks premature, couldn't even
move its arms and legs.
This little tiny shell of a baby
and they ran energy every day,
fed him good food, lots
of love, the baby thrived.
Above average intelligence.
He was destined to
have a 20 to 40 IQ
and be institutionalized
for life.
The child then
learned to see energy
and he sees the
energy in his hands.
One day he banged
his head on the couch
and daddy is running energy
and he says, "That feels good,"
as he stops crying, and he moves
his hands like this and daddy
says, "What do you see?"
He says, "I see light."
He said, "What
does it look like?"
"It looks like flashlights."
"Well, that's the energy."
And then the child was
able to actually see
the colors of the chakras.
This is like so revolutionary
that you can take a child--
>> I was going to ask you that.
Do you have children
practitioners?
>> Richard Gordon: Well, we've
had some I think the youngest
practitioner instructor
that I met was 18 years old.
>> But I mean are kids able
to do this on themselves,
each other, their family?
>> Richard Gordon: Oh yeah.
It is so inspiring.
I remember an 11 year
old boy took the class.
He was so excited.
He said, "You know,
I was secretly
wishing I had super human powers
and now I feel like I do."
So he goes to school the next
day and he says to his friend,
"You know, I've learned
how to help heal people."
He said, "Well, heal me."
He says, "Well, do
you hurt anywhere?"
He says, "No."
"Well, I could show you
better if you had something
[multiple speakers.]" So the kid
takes his own hand and slams it
on the table as hard as he can.
His hand is turning
purple and so
the kid picks up the boys
hand, runs energy into it,
and he said, "Wow, that's so
cool," and he ran off to play.
>> Doesn't it seem like
that should be part
of our curriculum in
the human species?
We should know about
things as simple
as our birthright of
being able to use our mind
and our love to heal
ourselves and each other?
>> Richard Gordon: That's one
of my long standing desires,
to see this as standard
education in public schools.
By the time a child
from kindergarten,
elementary school, all the
way up through high school,
graduates, they would
be profound, profound
practitioners of energy work.
Now the children have
a very pure energy.
>> I was going to say
there are no filters,
they haven't been taught to--
>> Richard Gordon: But they tend
to have a very short attention
span.
So you're going to get
a really good session,
you know, the seven
year old or six year old
is working on grandma's
headache and her knee pain
and just doing miracles.
It's such an inspiring,
touching thing to see.
>> Sometimes we can't heal
ourselves as well as we can
like you did earlier, you
can't work on your own spine,
as well as we can
heal each other.
And the thing that
occurs to me is perhaps
it's that quantum connectedness
to each other that
allows for this healing.
It's the dynamic.
>> Richard Gordon: Consider if
you bought the most beautiful
gift and you wrapped it up and
you waited for the most perfect
moment, you didn't
care what it cost,
it's just beautiful and you wait
for that moment and you give it
to yourself.
Well it's no surprise.
>> Yes.
>> Richard Gordon: It's a little
bit like running water through
the same pipes.
It's not a surprise
to the system
but somebody else's
love to you, I've
never loved myself this way.
It's a total surprise to me.
So other people's
energy may be more
of a surprise to your
system, but some people
have a greater capacity
of caring for themselves
and they're able to
effect themselves more,
and that's why my
students say don't
put your limitations on us.
Just because you have trouble
doing this thing on yourself
Richard, don't tell us
that we can't because they
have had phenomenal success.
And I hear stories about
people with really bad burns
and they run energy to
themselves and minutes later,
or sometimes 20 minutes
later, it doesn't hurt
and the redness disappears
and there's no scarring,
there's no, just all kinds of
wonderful stories taking place.
The range of stories is so
wide, as to be just compelling.
>> What about the situation,
we talked about this off camera
too, about the ability
to heal another when,
or facilitate healing, I think
that's a better way to say it,
in another person when there
is an emergency situation going
on, which I've certainly
participated in numerous
occasions and you've heard about
the mother who lifts the car
off the child.
What's happening there and
then you can't necessarily --
>> Richard Gordon: I've heard
this story so many times from
people who say, you know, this
person broke a bone and I was
so inspired at that moment,
I didn't know anything about
healing.
I put my hand on it,
it was a miracle,
but the next time I
tried to do it not only
did it not work but I
felt tired or drained.
Here is the deal.
When you are tapping into
that much love and desire
and passion, you just put
your hands on somebody,
something amazing
is going to happen.
But when you're
not tapped in you
don't know how to raise your
vibration to that level of love
and inspiration.
That's why we teach the
breathing body awareness
and heart exercises to lift
your vibration as high as if you
were the mom lifting the car.
That's why the people feel tired
or drained because when things
are vibrating in
different frequencies,
either you're going to lift
them up to your frequency
or you're going to come
down to their frequency
or you'll meet in the middle.
A practitioner who's
doing really good work
will feel more energized
at the end of the day.
So if you're going to go
see a healing practitioner,
the one question to ask is how
do you feel after a long day?
And if they say, "Oh,
I sacrificed myself
to help others," make a
different appointment.
But the person that says, "Oh,
my God, I'm so energized maybe
it takes me an hour or two
to relax and go ahead and go
to sleep," make your
appointment the last of the day.
Be the last person they see
because your energy will
get stronger and stronger.
I've done demonstrations
after a major lecture where
I'll work on everybody
in the audience,
give everybody two
minutes or something
and I'm working for like two,
three hours after the lecture
because there's a
big line of people,
I just touch people and people
jump and go [inaudible].
And some guy who teaches, who
studied with Chinese masters
at [inaudible] says,
"How are you doing this?
You looked tired when
you gave the lecture
and now you have more
energy than when you began."
I said, "Yeah, because I'm
constantly drawing more energy
in from the universe."
He says, "But I studied
with masters who were
drained after 15, 20 minutes."
Well, we're not
using our energy.
We're pulling in that
universal life force energy
and lifting ourselves
throughout the session.
>> What is the most amazing
thing you've seen happen?
>> Richard Gordon: I really--
>> I mean there's
so many, I know.
>> Richard Gordon:
There are too many.
One thing that when I first
started doing the work,
and it was the most
amazing at that moment,
was seeing my friends brought
a bunny rabbit over to my house
and was terrified because I
had to put it back in a box.
And I ran energy into it, it
was trembling in my hands.
It stopped trembling and
flipped over on its back
and stretched its
arms and legs out
as I had my hands on its belly.
I worked on woman that week
who had major osteoporosis who
was completely hunched over.
And when I was
done demonstrating
to a group of people
how it worked,
she was this very talk women.
I'm looking way up to
see her and her daughter
burst into the room, burst
out crying, oh my God
mommy is standing up straight.
I was so shocked after
these kinds of experiences.
It blew my mind because I just
had no place to believe this.
My teacher, Bob Rasmussen,
had a gall bladder attack
and they wanted to
amputate his gall bladder.
I drove down from Santa
Cruz to Los Angeles, spent
an hour and a
quarter with him, he
had no problem with his gall
bladder for the next 14 years.
When you see things happen that
are so amazing and surprising,
I call them life
shock experiences,
and when I saw that I could
do it without touching,
that was another shocking
experience to me.
It continues to this day
that from time to time
I will have these experiences
that are outside of my beliefs
and that's what I encourage
everybody to discover
is that we can find
that place where
the reality is more fascinating
and amazing than we ever
imagined.
>> Yes.
And I can tell just from
sitting across you when you're
doing your juju- when
you're doing your quantum
touch we had an experience just
before the show went on today.
My doggie, Finbar, is
having some issues right now
and you did a session sending
him love and you didn't tell me
you were sending it to
me at the same time,
but as soon as you
started I could
feel this immense energy
coming into my chest
and up and through my mind
and it was the feeling that we
recognize as love.
And you said, "Oh, by the way
I sent a little to you too."
>> Richard Gordon: Well, I knew
you needed it because you care
so much and you
wanted it too so.
>> Yes and that segues
into the subject of animals
and let's talk about that.
This is something you're
really passionate about,
that we tend to think we have
domination over the animal
kingdom rather than dominion.
Let's talk about this for a bit.
We have some time.
>> Richard Gordon: Yeah, the
material scientist believes
that animals are nothing
more than mechanical robots.
They have no consciousness,
so soul, no feelings,
but anybody who's spent
any time around their pets
know that the animals have
tremendous love and emotion
and we've seen so many
incredible sessions with even
wild animals, infants, people
under general anesthesia,
plants, fluids, everything
responds to the energy
even minerals.
I've been able to
change tourmalines.
I had this tourmaline
I thought was black
but it was actually
really dark green.
It's completely opaque.
I take it outside and I look
through a ten powered loop
and I couldn't see any color
and over time, running energy
into it, it just
completely lit up.
>> You're kidding.
Over what period of time?
>> Richard Gordon: A few years.
>> Wow.
>> Richard Gordon: It just
completely lit up and now
it's translucent.
You put a flashlight on
its side and it lights up,
you can see it in the
sun and it's turned
to gem quality in many places.
>> Wow.
>> Richard Gordon: It's not
completely across the board
but it's all around there.
But people have had so many
extraordinary experiences
where their animals I remember
a horse had cough and bone
problems where it's like the
horse is walking on its nail
and it can't stand up,
and if that happens
the horse lays down and the
organs collapse and the horse
dies.
It's fatal.
So this, one of
our practitioners
works on the horse and the horse
doesn't have cough and bone
problems.
It just changes the
position of the bone.
There's so many ways.
People work on the cats
and dogs and the birds
and because the love
doesn't differentiate
whether you're working on
these different conditions.
>> So it's not just healing but
also performance and this is
something worth getting into.
You live in Santa Monica.
You have a lot of
people that are,
you know, competing in a really
tough world of show biz, actors
and so forth, and
you work with them
in being able to draw
to them or pump up
their levels of
love and magnetism
to the point it gives
them an edge in life.
Can you talk about for a moment?
>> Richard Gordon: Absolutely.
I remember one woman
was complaining she
couldn't get any acting jobs.
So I showed her how to boost
the heart energy really big
like it's a city
block and how to shift
her emotions on the issue
too and so she just walks
in and says, "Hey guys."
And it's not that she's
prettier and it's not
that she's a better
actor, it's just
they can't keep
their eyes off of her
because her charisma is
just phenomenally large
and she got the job.
I said, "Please don't
forget the little people,
you know the ones
under five foot six."
>> When she's up there
on the big screen.
>> Richard Gordon: Well yeah.
>> Isn't this true
in everything though?
If you can harness that energy
and breathe it through you
and pump up that heart
energy and the being,
it can move mountains in pretty
much any area of life can't it?
I mean really this is
just a universal energy
we're talking about.
>> Richard Gordon:
Well, like Chris says,
we're discovering
all of the apps,
and that's one of hundreds
of applications that
we're discovering, that we can
help performers really focus
in and shift their charisma
and become much more appealing
to look at on stage.
But what happens is when you
are in front of an audience
and you're feeling yourself
contracted and oh, my God
I have to speak to a
hundred or a thousand people
and I'm getting really scared,
what's happening to your field?
You've gone into fetal position
and you're holding it in.
All you have to do
is start including
the first row in your
field and then bring it
all the way back to
the extreme audience
and then open up your heart
and feel yourself filling
the whole room with
that heart energy,
and now they're your
friends, they're
no longer alienated
because what happens
is we contract when
we're afraid and we
expand when we're feeling good.
So you start opening
up and that's
one of the tricks I use
to show the actors how
to build their charisma,
is how to expand
the heart energy really wide.
>> Yes and the reality is
that love trumps fear so again
you're going right back to love.
>> Richard Gordon: Exactly.
>> Bringing the feelings
of love into the being
and into the body.
And there's one final thing.
We just have a
couple minutes left.
>> Richard Gordon: Okay.
>> And that is when, when you do
this we often feel like either
self we won't try it because
we feel self conscious.
Gee, what if it doesn't work?
>> Richard Gordon: Right.
>> And you say something toward
the end of the book that I
think is really, it's a very
important part and that is it
is not your responsibility
to heal another.
If you can just take our last
minute and talk about that.
So it takes the burden off us.
Oh my God I failed, you know?
>> Richard Gordon: Well,
as I said, the healer has-
by definition- is the one
who was sick and got well.
Our job is to hold
a field of energy
and to hold it within
pack ability and love.
And to continue raising that
field throughout the session,
it is their job to get well.
So if I do my best and I'm
holding the field really well
and they respond well,
that's fantastic,
and if they don't,
that's not my job.
My job is holding the field.
Their job is getting well.
>> So don't beat ourselves up.
Just yet another
negative on the chart.
Don't beat ourselves up if
the person isn't responding
the way we had hoped.
>> Richard Gordon: The bottom
line is our love is truly
valuable and has impact.
>> Absolutely.
Richard, thank you so
much for your time.
Thank you for working
on my doggie Finbar
and for sharing all
of this information.
You're right, it has to
go into the curriculum.
That has to be what's up next.
>> Richard Gordon:
Thank you so much.
>> Thank you.
I hope this has inspired
the healer in you.
You can find Richard's book
"Quantum Touch 2.0 The New
Human" at any major bookseller.
I have seen, experienced
and conducted this kind
of healing first hand and
I can say without a doubt
that all of us have the
ability to heal if we choose.
Until next time thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[Silence] [Music_]